# Amy Brown's SQL Portfolio

Hello, and thanks for stopping by! This repository contains examples of SQL I've written for solo projects and while working through SQL, machine learning, and other data analytics courses. Below are a few highlighted projects. Feel free to take a look around and [reach out](https://www.linkedin.com/in/amymartikabrown/) if you have any questions.

## Highlighted Projects
* **Spotify Top Songs Analaysis** - [SQL](https://github.com/amymartika/SQL/blob/main/Spotify%20Top%20Songs%202021%20Data%20Analysis): In this project, I used a dataset found on Kaggle to analyze trends in the top 50 songs of 2021. Using pitch-class integer notation, I examined the key and tonality for these top songs. I joined data from a Hooktheory database to compare the most popular song keys with the song keys most represented in the top 50 Spotify tracks of 2021.
* **Predictive Book Ratings Analysis** - [SQL](https://github.com/amymartika/SQL/blob/main/Predicting%20Book%20Ratings): In this project, I used my own data from Goodreads to analyze how my book ratings differ from the average ratings found on Goodreads. I categorized the books by genre and obtained the average difference in rating per genre. I created another table containing similar data for books that won the Booker Prize for Fiction from 2000-2021 and joined this data to predict, for each Booker Prize-winning book, what my rating would be.
* **World Happiness Rankings Dashboard** - [Tableau dashboard](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/amymartika/viz/WorldHappinessReport_16737679931360/WorldHappinessReport): In this dashboard, I used the World Happiness Report dataset that ranks the happiness of 155 countries from 2015 to 2019. I quantified a number of metrics, including average happiness ranking, average happiness score, and the top factors impacting happiness. I included the world averages so that the user can select a country and compare its metrics against the average across all countries.

### Superstore Profit Dashboard - [Tableau](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/amymartika/viz/ExecutiveOverview_16733205488000/ExecutiveOverview) 
In this dashboard, I used a Tableau dataset containing sample sales data from 2018 to 2021. Though the sample dataset provides a wider overview of sales data, I saw an opportunity to strategically visualize clear, actionable insights to my fictional audience of sales executives. The dashboard allows my audience to immediately pinpoint the geographical, categorical, and seasonal factors that are leading to profit loss — providing the guided insight that allows them to impact change on their team.
